docs/mdbook/index.md, before:

# NixVim - A Neovim configuration system for nix

## Other versions of these docs

Please ensure you are referencing documentation that corresponds to the Nixvim version you are using!

Documentation is currently available for the following versions:

@DOCS_VERSIONS@

## What is it?
NixVim is a [Neovim](https://neovim.io) distribution built around
[Nix](https://nixos.org) modules. It is distributed as a Nix flake, and
configured through Nix, all while leaving room for your plugins and your vimrc.

## What does it look like?
Here is a simple configuration that uses catppuccin as the colorscheme and uses the
lualine plugin:

```nix
{
  programs.nixvim = {
    enable = true;

    colorschemes.catppuccin.enable = true;
    plugins.lualine.enable = true;
  };
}
```

When we do this, lualine will be set up to a sensible default, and will use
catppuccin as the colorscheme, no extra configuration required!

Check out [this list of real world nixvim configs](./user-guide/config-examples.md)!

## Welcome to the docs!

Over to the left, you'll find the sidebar. There you'll see several "User guides" (including an [FAQ](./user-guide/faq.md)]), along with pages for various "options".

While you can search our main docs using the <i class="fa fa-search"></i> icon, if you're looking for a specific option you may find the dedicated [Nixvim Option Search](./search/index.html) (at the bottom of the sidebar) has more relevant results.

> [!TIP]
> Any page with a ❱ icon next to it has one-or-more _sub-pages_.

Commit message:

docs: notify `useGlobalPackages` breaking change

docs/mdbook/index.md, after:

# NixVim - A Neovim configuration system for nix

## Other versions of these docs

Please ensure you are referencing documentation that corresponds to the Nixvim version you are using!

Documentation is currently available for the following versions:

@DOCS_VERSIONS@

## Recent Breaking Changes

> [!CAUTION]
> By default, Nixvim now constructs its own instance of nixpkgs, using the revision from our flake.lock.
> This change was largely motivated by: [How do I solve "`<name>` cannot be found in `pkgs`"](./user-guide/faq.html#how-do-i-solve-name-cannot-be-found-in-pkgs)
>
> The old behaviour can be restored by enabling `nixpkgs.useGlobalPackages`.

## What is it?
NixVim is a [Neovim](https://neovim.io) distribution built around
[Nix](https://nixos.org) modules. It is distributed as a Nix flake, and
configured through Nix, all while leaving room for your plugins and your vimrc.

## What does it look like?
Here is a simple configuration that uses catppuccin as the colorscheme and uses the
lualine plugin:

```nix
{
  programs.nixvim = {
    enable = true;

    colorschemes.catppuccin.enable = true;
    plugins.lualine.enable = true;
  };
}
```

When we do this, lualine will be set up to a sensible default, and will use
catppuccin as the colorscheme, no extra configuration required!

Check out [this list of real world nixvim configs](./user-guide/config-examples.md)!

## Welcome to the docs!

Over to the left, you'll find the sidebar. There you'll see several "User guides" (including an [FAQ](./user-guide/faq.md)]), along with pages for various "options".

While you can search our main docs using the <i class="fa fa-search"></i> icon, if you're looking for a specific option you may find the dedicated [Nixvim Option Search](./search/index.html) (at the bottom of the sidebar) has more relevant results.

> [!TIP]
> Any page with a ❱ icon next to it has one-or-more _sub-pages_.
